# LINDA DADA initiative

Linda Dada is a Straight Talk Foundation’s initiative that seeks to empower girls through education, mentorship and free sanitary towels to needy school girls as well as lifesaving information on HIV/AIDS prevention, we also provide the girl child with the essential information to adulthood through guidance, counseling and empowering them on their civic and sexual reproductive health rights. Linda Dada is Swahili for ‘protect the girl-child. Straight Talk Foundation has delivered to young girls over 5,000 thousand sanitary pads during school visits which we have had since 2011 across the country.

Our Strategies

Dada Talk Clubs
We have established around 230 girls club in different Kenyan schools to inform and encourage young girls to be agents of change through meaningful conversations. The clubs are in Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Samburu, Kisii and Nyanza Counties. The clubs are managed by guidance and counseling teachers



School Outreaches
Through our structured school outreach program, we have been able to engage more school girls. In partnership with Centre for the Study of Adolescents (CSA), we were able to reach out to school girls from 80 schools in Western Kenya and Kisii with Sexual and reproductive health and rights messaging

Newspaper Pull outs

We print two popular youth magazines that are distributed around schools and out of school points like youth groups, churches and youth serving organisations. Pertinent girls issues such FGM, SRHR and HIV/Aids, pregnancy, menstruation etc are well tacked.

Social Media
We have utilized new media to create conversations about topical issues affecting women and girls in particular. Some of the issues dealt with include Rape and abortion
Girls Camps
Linda Dada has organized, or participated in several girls camp meant to educate and empower girls. In August, We participated in 2 camps in Machakos and Samburu. Below is an example of what was tackled in one of the camps in Samburu:-

SAMBURU NORTH GIRLS CAMP (August 2015)
Together with our partners (Cordaid and Caritas), we reached 350 pupils in 6 public primary schools and 12 public primary teachers who were trained by a total of 9 facilitators. The campers participated in interactive sessions such as life skills, climate change, the role of girls in peace building, harmful cultural practices such as; Female Genital Mutilation, early/ forced marriages, beading and Human rights. Campers were from Ngilai, Bendera, Baragoi Primary, Nachola, Natiti and Nalingagor primary school. Baragoi and Ngilai primary schools have benefited from the energy saving jikos under the KEEP Project

Objectives:

To engage the campers on Challenges they face on gender issues such as; Gender inequality, Female Genital Mutilation, Physical violence, early and forced marriages.
Train campers through an activity based curriculum on health, safety, human rights, future planning and environmental issues.
To take the participants through interactive sessions on peace, effective communication skills.
To demonstrate the harmful effects of FGM / HIV/Aids through videos, skits and plays and discuss follow up mechanisms
Linda Dada also uses all other strategies under Straight Talk towards achieving our core goal of girls empowerment in  Kenya